docs/scripting/inlinescripts.rst, before:

.. _inlinescripts:

Inline Scripts
==============

**mitmproxy** has a powerful scripting API that allows you to modify flows
on-the-fly or rewrite previously saved flows locally.

The mitmproxy scripting API is event driven - a script is simply a Python
module that exposes a set of event methods. Here's a complete mitmproxy script
that adds a new header to every HTTP response before it is returned to the
client:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/add_header.py
   :caption: examples/add_header.py
   :language: python

All events that deal with an HTTP request get an instance of :py:class:`~mitmproxy.models.HTTPFlow`,
which we can use to manipulate the response itself.

We can now run this script using mitmdump or mitmproxy as follows:

>>> mitmdump -s add_header.py

The new header will be added to all responses passing through the proxy.

Examples
--------

mitmproxy comes with a variety of example inline scripts, which demonstrate many basic tasks.
We encourage you to either browse them locally or on `GitHub`_.


Events
------

Script Lifecycle Events
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. py:function:: start(context)

    Called once on startup, before any other events.

    :param List[str] argv: The inline scripts' arguments.
        For example, ``mitmproxy -s 'example.py --foo 42'`` sets argv to ``["--foo", "42"]``.

.. py:function:: done(context)

    Called once on script shutdown, after any other events.

Connection Events
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. py:function:: clientconnect(context, root_layer)

    Called when a client initiates a connection to the proxy. Note that
    a connection can correspond to multiple HTTP requests.

    .. versionchanged:: 0.14

    :param Layer root_layer: The root layer (see :ref:`protocols` for an explanation what the root
        layer is), which provides transparent access to all attributes of the
        :py:class:`~mitmproxy.proxy.RootContext`. For example, ``root_layer.client_conn.address``
        gives the remote address of the connecting client.

.. py:function:: clientdisconnect(context, root_layer)

    Called when a client disconnects from the proxy.

    .. versionchanged:: 0.14

    :param Layer root_layer: see :py:func:`clientconnect`

.. py:function:: serverconnect(context, server_conn)

    Called before the proxy initiates a connection to the target server. Note that
    a connection can correspond to multiple HTTP requests.

    :param ServerConnection server_conn: The server connection object. It is guaranteed to have a
        non-None ``address`` attribute.

.. py:function:: serverdisconnect(context, server_conn)

    Called when the proxy has closed the server connection.

    .. versionadded:: 0.14

    :param ServerConnection server_conn: see :py:func:`serverconnect`

HTTP Events
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. py:function:: request(context, flow)

    Called when a client request has been received. The ``flow`` object is
    guaranteed to have a non-None ``request`` attribute.

    :param HTTPFlow flow: The flow containing the request which has been received.
        The object is guaranteed to have a non-None ``request`` attribute.

.. py:function:: responseheaders(context, flow)

    Called when the headers of a server response have been received.
    This will always be called before the response hook.

    :param HTTPFlow flow: The flow containing the request and response.
        The object is guaranteed to have non-None ``request`` and
        ``response`` attributes. ``response.content`` will be ``None``,
        as the response body has not been read yet.

.. py:function:: response(context, flow)

    Called when a server response has been received.

    :param HTTPFlow flow: The flow containing the request and response.
        The object is guaranteed to have non-None ``request`` and
        ``response`` attributes. ``response.body`` will contain the raw response body,
        unless response streaming has been enabled.

.. py:function:: error(context, flow)

    Called when a flow error has occurred, e.g. invalid server responses, or
    interrupted connections. This is distinct from a valid server HTTP error
    response, which is simply a response with an HTTP error code.

    :param HTTPFlow flow: The flow containing the error.
        It is guaranteed to have non-None ``error`` attribute.

TCP Events
^^^^^^^^^^

.. py:function:: tcp_message(context, tcp_msg)

    .. warning::  API is subject to change

    If the proxy is in :ref:`TCP mode <tcpproxy>`, this event is called when it
    receives a TCP payload from the client or server.

    The sender and receiver are identifiable. The message is user-modifiable.

    :param TcpMessage tcp_msg: see *examples/tcp_message.py*

API
---

The canonical API documentation is the code, which you can browse here, locally or on `GitHub`_.
*Use the Source, Luke!*

The main classes you will deal with in writing mitmproxy scripts are:

:py:class:`mitmproxy.flow.FlowMaster`
    - The "heart" of mitmproxy, usually subclassed as :py:class:`mitmproxy.dump.DumpMaster` or
      :py:class:`mitmproxy.console.ConsoleMaster`.
:py:class:`~mitmproxy.models.ClientConnection`
    - Describes a client connection.
:py:class:`~mitmproxy.models.ServerConnection`
    - Describes a server connection.
:py:class:`~mitmproxy.models.HTTPFlow`
    - A collection of objects representing a single HTTP transaction.
:py:class:`~mitmproxy.models.HTTPRequest`
    - An HTTP request.
:py:class:`~mitmproxy.models.HTTPResponse`
    - An HTTP response.
:py:class:`~mitmproxy.models.Error`
    - A communications error.
:py:class:`netlib.http.Headers`
    - A dictionary-like object for managing HTTP headers.
:py:class:`netlib.certutils.SSLCert`
    - Exposes information SSL certificates.


Running scripts in parallel
---------------------------

We have a single flow primitive, so when a script is blocking, other requests are not processed.
While that's usually a very desirable behaviour, blocking scripts can be run threaded by using the
:py:obj:`mitmproxy.script.concurrent` decorator.
**If your script does not block, you should avoid the overhead of the decorator.**

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/nonblocking.py
   :caption: examples/nonblocking.py
   :language: python

Make scripts configurable with arguments
----------------------------------------

Sometimes, you want to pass runtime arguments to the inline script. This can be simply done by
surrounding the script call with quotes, e.g. ```mitmdump -s 'script.py --foo 42'``.
The arguments are then exposed in the start event:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/modify_response_body.py
   :caption: examples/modify_response_body.py
   :language: python

Running scripts on saved flows
------------------------------

Sometimes, we want to run a script on :py:class:`~mitmproxy.models.Flow` objects that are already
complete.  This happens when you start a script, and then load a saved set of flows from a file
(see the "scripted data transformation" example :ref:`here <mitmdump>`).
It also happens when you run a one-shot script on a single flow through the ``|`` (pipe) shortcut
in mitmproxy.

In this case, there are no client connections, and the events are run in the following order:
**start**, **request**, **responseheaders**, **response**, **error**, **done**.
If the flow doesn't have a **response** or **error** associated with it, the matching events will
be skipped.

Spaces in the script path
-------------------------

By default, spaces are interpreted as a separator between the inline script and its arguments
(e.g. ``-s 'foo.py 42'``). Consequently, the script path needs to be wrapped in a separate pair of
quotes if it contains spaces: ``-s '\'./foo bar/baz.py\' 42'``.

.. _GitHub: https://github.com/mitmproxy/mitmproxy

Commit message:

add docs for websocket_handshake hook

docs/scripting/inlinescripts.rst, after:

.. _inlinescripts:

Inline Scripts
==============

**mitmproxy** has a powerful scripting API that allows you to modify flows
on-the-fly or rewrite previously saved flows locally.

The mitmproxy scripting API is event driven - a script is simply a Python
module that exposes a set of event methods. Here's a complete mitmproxy script
that adds a new header to every HTTP response before it is returned to the
client:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/add_header.py
   :caption: examples/add_header.py
   :language: python

All events that deal with an HTTP request get an instance of :py:class:`~mitmproxy.models.HTTPFlow`,
which we can use to manipulate the response itself.

We can now run this script using mitmdump or mitmproxy as follows:

>>> mitmdump -s add_header.py

The new header will be added to all responses passing through the proxy.

Examples
--------

mitmproxy comes with a variety of example inline scripts, which demonstrate many basic tasks.
We encourage you to either browse them locally or on `GitHub`_.


Events
------

Script Lifecycle Events
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. py:function:: start(context)

    Called once on startup, before any other events.

    :param List[str] argv: The inline scripts' arguments.
        For example, ``mitmproxy -s 'example.py --foo 42'`` sets argv to ``["--foo", "42"]``.

.. py:function:: done(context)

    Called once on script shutdown, after any other events.

Connection Events
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. py:function:: clientconnect(context, root_layer)

    Called when a client initiates a connection to the proxy. Note that
    a connection can correspond to multiple HTTP requests.

    .. versionchanged:: 0.14

    :param Layer root_layer: The root layer (see :ref:`protocols` for an explanation what the root
        layer is), which provides transparent access to all attributes of the
        :py:class:`~mitmproxy.proxy.RootContext`. For example, ``root_layer.client_conn.address``
        gives the remote address of the connecting client.

.. py:function:: clientdisconnect(context, root_layer)

    Called when a client disconnects from the proxy.

    .. versionchanged:: 0.14

    :param Layer root_layer: see :py:func:`clientconnect`

.. py:function:: serverconnect(context, server_conn)

    Called before the proxy initiates a connection to the target server. Note that
    a connection can correspond to multiple HTTP requests.

    :param ServerConnection server_conn: The server connection object. It is guaranteed to have a
        non-None ``address`` attribute.

.. py:function:: serverdisconnect(context, server_conn)

    Called when the proxy has closed the server connection.

    .. versionadded:: 0.14

    :param ServerConnection server_conn: see :py:func:`serverconnect`

HTTP Events
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. py:function:: request(context, flow)

    Called when a client request has been received. The ``flow`` object is
    guaranteed to have a non-None ``request`` attribute.

    :param HTTPFlow flow: The flow containing the request which has been received.
        The object is guaranteed to have a non-None ``request`` attribute.

.. py:function:: responseheaders(context, flow)

    Called when the headers of a server response have been received.
    This will always be called before the response hook.

    :param HTTPFlow flow: The flow containing the request and response.
        The object is guaranteed to have non-None ``request`` and
        ``response`` attributes. ``response.content`` will be ``None``,
        as the response body has not been read yet.

.. py:function:: response(context, flow)

    Called when a server response has been received.

    :param HTTPFlow flow: The flow containing the request and response.
        The object is guaranteed to have non-None ``request`` and
        ``response`` attributes. ``response.body`` will contain the raw response body,
        unless response streaming has been enabled.

.. py:function:: error(context, flow)

    Called when a flow error has occurred, e.g. invalid server responses, or
    interrupted connections. This is distinct from a valid server HTTP error
    response, which is simply a response with an HTTP error code.

    :param HTTPFlow flow: The flow containing the error.
        It is guaranteed to have non-None ``error`` attribute.

WebSockets Events
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. py:function:: websockets_handshake(context, flow)

    Called when a client wants to establish a WebSockets connection.
    The WebSockets-specific headers can be manipulated to manipulate the handshake.
    The ``flow`` object is guaranteed to have a non-None ``request`` attribute.

    :param HTTPFlow flow: The flow containing the request which has been received.
        The object is guaranteed to have a non-None ``request`` attribute.

TCP Events
^^^^^^^^^^

.. py:function:: tcp_message(context, tcp_msg)

    .. warning::  API is subject to change

    If the proxy is in :ref:`TCP mode <tcpproxy>`, this event is called when it
    receives a TCP payload from the client or server.

    The sender and receiver are identifiable. The message is user-modifiable.

    :param TcpMessage tcp_msg: see *examples/tcp_message.py*

API
---

The canonical API documentation is the code, which you can browse here, locally or on `GitHub`_.
*Use the Source, Luke!*

The main classes you will deal with in writing mitmproxy scripts are:

:py:class:`mitmproxy.flow.FlowMaster`
    - The "heart" of mitmproxy, usually subclassed as :py:class:`mitmproxy.dump.DumpMaster` or
      :py:class:`mitmproxy.console.ConsoleMaster`.
:py:class:`~mitmproxy.models.ClientConnection`
    - Describes a client connection.
:py:class:`~mitmproxy.models.ServerConnection`
    - Describes a server connection.
:py:class:`~mitmproxy.models.HTTPFlow`
    - A collection of objects representing a single HTTP transaction.
:py:class:`~mitmproxy.models.HTTPRequest`
    - An HTTP request.
:py:class:`~mitmproxy.models.HTTPResponse`
    - An HTTP response.
:py:class:`~mitmproxy.models.Error`
    - A communications error.
:py:class:`netlib.http.Headers`
    - A dictionary-like object for managing HTTP headers.
:py:class:`netlib.certutils.SSLCert`
    - Exposes information SSL certificates.


Running scripts in parallel
---------------------------

We have a single flow primitive, so when a script is blocking, other requests are not processed.
While that's usually a very desirable behaviour, blocking scripts can be run threaded by using the
:py:obj:`mitmproxy.script.concurrent` decorator.
**If your script does not block, you should avoid the overhead of the decorator.**

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/nonblocking.py
   :caption: examples/nonblocking.py
   :language: python

Make scripts configurable with arguments
----------------------------------------

Sometimes, you want to pass runtime arguments to the inline script. This can be simply done by
surrounding the script call with quotes, e.g. ```mitmdump -s 'script.py --foo 42'``.
The arguments are then exposed in the start event:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/modify_response_body.py
   :caption: examples/modify_response_body.py
   :language: python

Running scripts on saved flows
------------------------------

Sometimes, we want to run a script on :py:class:`~mitmproxy.models.Flow` objects that are already
complete.  This happens when you start a script, and then load a saved set of flows from a file
(see the "scripted data transformation" example :ref:`here <mitmdump>`).
It also happens when you run a one-shot script on a single flow through the ``|`` (pipe) shortcut
in mitmproxy.

In this case, there are no client connections, and the events are run in the following order:
**start**, **request**, **responseheaders**, **response**, **error**, **done**.
If the flow doesn't have a **response** or **error** associated with it, the matching events will
be skipped.

Spaces in the script path
-------------------------

By default, spaces are interpreted as a separator between the inline script and its arguments
(e.g. ``-s 'foo.py 42'``). Consequently, the script path needs to be wrapped in a separate pair of
quotes if it contains spaces: ``-s '\'./foo bar/baz.py\' 42'``.

.. _GitHub: https://github.com/mitmproxy/mitmproxy
