examples/simple/README.md, before:

## Simple Examples

| Filename                       | Description                                                                  |
| :----------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| add_header.py                  | Simple script that just adds a header to every request.                      |
| custom_contentview.py          | Add a custom content view to the mitmproxy UI.                               |
| custom_option.py               | Add arguments to a script.                                                   |
| filter_flows.py                | This script demonstrates how to use mitmproxy's filter pattern in scripts.   |
| io_read_dumpfile.py            | Read a dumpfile generated by mitmproxy.                                      |
| io_write_dumpfile.py           | Only write selected flows into a mitmproxy dumpfile.                         |
| log_events.py                  | Use mitmproxy's logging API.                                                 |
| modify_body_inject_iframe.py   | Inject configurable iframe into pages.                                       |
| modify_form.py                 | Modify HTTP form submissions.                                                |
| modify_querystring.py          | Modify HTTP query strings.                                                   |
| redirect_requests.py           | Redirect a request to a different server.                                    |
| send_reply_from_proxy.py       | Send a HTTP response directly from the proxy.                                |
| internet_in_mirror.py          | Turn all images upside down.                                                 |
| wsgi_flask_app.py              | Embed a WSGI app into mitmproxy.                                             |

Commit message:

Added link_expander.py example to simple examples

examples/simple/README.md, after:

## Simple Examples

| Filename                       | Description                                                                  |
| :----------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| add_header.py                  | Simple script that just adds a header to every request.                      |
| custom_contentview.py          | Add a custom content view to the mitmproxy UI.                               |
| custom_option.py               | Add arguments to a script.                                                   |
| filter_flows.py                | This script demonstrates how to use mitmproxy's filter pattern in scripts.   |
| io_read_dumpfile.py            | Read a dumpfile generated by mitmproxy.                                      |
| io_write_dumpfile.py           | Only write selected flows into a mitmproxy dumpfile.                         |
| link_expander.py               | Discover relative links in HTML traffic and replace them with absolute paths |
| log_events.py                  | Use mitmproxy's logging API.                                                 |
| modify_body_inject_iframe.py   | Inject configurable iframe into pages.                                       |
| modify_form.py                 | Modify HTTP form submissions.                                                |
| modify_querystring.py          | Modify HTTP query strings.                                                   |
| redirect_requests.py           | Redirect a request to a different server.                                    |
| send_reply_from_proxy.py       | Send a HTTP response directly from the proxy.                                |
| internet_in_mirror.py          | Turn all images upside down.                                                 |
| wsgi_flask_app.py              | Embed a WSGI app into mitmproxy.                                             |
